# Shared Folder

When you first start Monadic Chat, a `~/monadic/data` directory is created. This directory is the default shared folder for sharing files within Monadic Chat's Docker containers.

Clicking the `Shared Folder` button in the Monadic Chat console will launch the OS's standard file manager and open the shared folder.

By placing files in this directory, you can access those files within Monadic Chat's Docker containers. The path to the shared folder within each Docker container is `/monadic/data`.

In apps that can execute code (e.g., Code Interpreter app), you can read files from the shared folder. When specifying a file, only specify the file name without the directory.

If any processing is done within the app, intermediate files may be saved in the shared folder. If processing fails for some reason, you can check the shared folder to see the intermediate results.

When you use the `Actions/Start JupyterLab` menu in the Monadic Chat console to launch JupyterLab, it starts with `/monadic/data` as the home directory. This allows you to access files in the shared folder within JupyterLab as well.

## Examples of Files Saved in the Shared Folder

- `monadic.log`: Monadic Chat server log file
- `compose.yml` file created when adding additional containers
- Result files of code executed in apps such as `code interpreter`
- Image files generated by the `image generator` app
- Notebook files created by the `jupyter notebook` app
- Image files generated by the `video designer` app by splitting videos
- Audio files extracted by the `video designer` app
- Audio files generated by the `speech draft helper` app

## Automatically Created Subfolders

This section explains the subfolders that are automatically created within Monadic Chat's Docker containers.

**`apps`**

A folder for storing additional applications other than the basic apps.

**`services`**

A folder for storing Docker-related files to create images and containers for use by additional applications.

**`helpers`**

A folder for storing helper files that contains functions (methods) to use in apps.

**`scripts`**

A folder for storing scripts that can be executed within the Python container (`monadic-chat-python-container`). Scripts stored here will be added to the Python container's path. Therefore, you can execute scripts using the `send_command` method in additional apps.

**`plugins`**

A folder for storing Monadic Chat plugins. Each plugin is organized in its own folder and can have its own `apps`, `helpers`, and `services` subfolders. Plugin folders cannot have a `scripts` subfolder.
